Good to see each one of you.
Today is a little bit of a different Sunday for us.
This has been our summit weekend, our world view weekend, and as a part of that world view weekend, today we have the privilege of hearing from Dr. Kathy Cook of Summit Ministries.
Dr. Kathy earned a PhD in education, and there we go, educational psychology from Purdue University.
She was tenured as an associate professor of education at the University of Wisconsin-Green Bay and served as a teacher of second graders, a middle school coach and a school board member before founding Celebrate Kids in 1991.
Dr. Cook has appeared as an expert in child development in two different documentaries directed by Kurt Cameron.
And she is also a popular guest on Focus on the Family Radio and other radio talk shows and podcasts.
She's the author of over nine books, a few of which are Screens and Teens, Resilient Kids, and her most recent book, Parent Differently, Raise Kids with Biblical Character that Change Culture.
Following her talk this morning, just so you're aware and can be making plans for this, she will be sharing a seminar right here in this room at 2 p.m. this afternoon entitled Resilience and Necessary Ability for Today's Times.
And I really encourage you, whatever plans you have, set them aside.
And come back to this room at 2 p.m. You will not regret it.
Now, please help me give a warm foothills welcome to Dr. Kathy Cook.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Appreciate it.
Oh, that's so kind of you.
Good morning.
Thank you.
That's the first test.
Will they say good morning?
I have a bad back, a bad shoulder, and a bad foot, so I'm gonna sit.
If you have a problem, get over it.
If you can't see me, you can move.
Okay, so far so good.
So glad to be here.
What an honor.
Yes.
You saying, we saying, all your ways are good.
Did you mean it?
All your ways are good.
How many of you are convicted sometimes when you sing?
Anybody have trouble singing some stuff?
Yeah, like, worship's important.
I loved it.
It's good.
You know what's really cool about the worship, sir?
I don't know which one's the paid worship leader.
And that's really cool.
I have a guest, but it doesn't matter.
There was a team.
Like, I do this all over the country or the world, and I've been in places where there are not worshiping, they're singing, and they're performing.
That's not what was happening.
It was so good.
Love it.
By the way,
I don't need to tell you that, I'll just keep going.
So, do you believe that all of his ways are good?
Does that include that God is a good creator?
Hope so, he's a good creator.
You have to believe that he is good for it to be good that you created in his image.
We are created in his image.
It's so encouraging, I think.
Genesis 1, 27.
The first thing we learn about ourselves and the holy accurate transforming, I was relevant, word of God, is that we're created in his image.
He says it twice in the verse just to make sure you get it.
So God created man in his own image and the image of God.
He created him, male and female.
He created them.
God had so much love to share that he had to make people.
The triune God, the trinity, so much love that he had to make people, but he didn't have to make you.
And he didn't have to make you you, but he did.
He didn't have to make us an individual in his image, but he did.
He could have made us in the image of you name it, like grasshoppers, they're disgusting, but he made us in his image.
He's a good creator.
He wanted you.
He creatively created you in his image for his good, not your own, and to be grateful is the right response.
He's a personal creator, not only is he
strategic in the reality that we created in his image, but he is a personal creator.
Have you noticed he does not have an assembly line approach?
We are all uniquely different.
Praise the Lord.
I don't know you, but one of me is enough, so I'm assuming one of you is enough.
How many of you want to raise your hand on behalf of the person you're sitting with that one of that person is enough, right?
That's brave.
I see a few people.
Yeah, he creates every person intentionally, personally, strategically, lovingly,
and uniquely.
He knows what he's doing when he makes us us.
He had a vision for your life.
We are not spaghetti thrown against the wall to see what sticks.
He's not like that.
With everything, he's intentional, strategic, personal, and loving.
He planned that you would put his goodness on display.
Think about that.
Are you doing that?
Wow, what a privileged people we are to know him and to make him known.
Yeah, he created us on purpose, with purpose, for purpose.
I want you to live long and be strong and figure it out.
I want you to live long and be strong and figure out why he made you the way that he made you.
Why are you the who you are?
He had a plan.
Isaiah knows it.
Isaiah, an Old Testament book in the Holy Word.
Isaiah says this.
Oh Lord, you are our Father.
We are the clay and you are our potter, and we are all the work of your hand.
Everybody say all.
Everybody, everybody, everybody is created by the work of God's hand.
He wants every person created.
And we can find that mysterious, but he created all of us intentionally.
So he, I don't know if he's sad or if he stood at the potter's wheel, but there he is.
And I picture his muscular, mighty, strategic hands making you you.
Oh yes, good idea.
I'll make them a girl this time.
They'll be so excited.
Mm-hmm.
That's a good idea.
Long fingers.
It makes the piano easier.
Her mom will be so happy about that.
The little girl will be OK. Mm-hmm.
That's a good idea.
OK. Yeah, I'm going to make her analytic like her dad, because that'll have a really good connection.
She's going to love details.
Oh my goodness.
Could drive the mom nuts, but the mom's getting better with the husband, so I think it'll all be OK. Yeah.
It'll be good.
Oh, that's a good idea.
Okay.
We can give her a very special heart because nobody knows it yet, but she's gonna have a little brother that's gonna be pretty hard to love, so I'm gonna give her a really special heart.
You are who you are supposed to be.
Created for such a time as this to do the work that he's called you to do.
According to the scripture, there's no unexpected pregnancy.
I will admit to you that I sometimes look at people who conceive children and wonder what God was thinking about that.
Infertility runs in my family so I can get a really pretty strong opinion about these things, but God gets it.
That's all that matters to me.
I'm pro-life.
I'm pro-eternal life.
I'm pro-abundant life.
John 10-10 says that Jesus took our sin upon himself and went to the cross that we would live an abundant life, not a mediocre existence.
Oh, but to challenge you, to ask yourself, just be honest before God, are you living in abundant life?
Put in mind, display in every way that you possibly can.
And I don't say that, like, so that you feel like you have to be this gerbil in the cage, like running, running, running, running, running.
But to be someone and do something that would draw people's attention to God, pro eternal life, pro abundant life, pro life, pro love, pro family, I'm pro living.
I'm pro living, like everybody breathe.
Did you wake up today grateful?
How many of you know people, they're not living their life, but they're not living?
And let's not be that, amen?
Okay, do you like me?
I don't care.
I'm gonna tell you people how to be living.
We work with young people, so I'm a part of the summit faculty, so I teach up in Colorado.
I do Bible college chapels, I do high school chapels, I work with homeschool families.
been all over and so, so privileged and so grateful.
And I know what I know in suicide cutting drugs and alcohol, pharmaceutical addiction, all of the stuff that you read about the depression and the stress and the addiction to the phones, it all starts because people aren't living.
If we lived in gratitude to God who chose for us to live,
So much would go away that concerns so many people, be pro-living, amen.
So we are creating in his image, first thing we know about ourselves, so amazing.
God's creative intent is also demonstrated, again, in this Isaiah verse that I just shared with you, that we're created by an intentional God, he knows what he's doing.
And then we're also gonna look at Ephesians 2-10.
One of my life verses, Ephesians 2-10 in the New Testament also declares the intentionality of God.
This is so precious.
For we are his workmanship.
In some of the translations, it says masterpiece.
It's the word that poem comes from in the original language.
So the next time somebody says, tell me a little bit about yourself, just smile and say, well, I'm a masterpiece.
Of course, they are too.
Like, hello.
You're not special.
Well, we're all special, but you're not anymore special.
Are you trying to write that down?
I'm so sorry.
But if you have the guts to say to somebody that, hey, I'm a masterpiece, look him in the eye and say, hey, so are you.
How many of you know people who would be encouraged by that?
There are so many people who don't believe that there's anything good, but you saying that all of God's ways are good.
And I'm going to say that that includes the fact that he was creative in the way that he made us us.
We are his workmanship.
We're his masterpiece.
Created in Christ Jesus.
What a significant phrase for good works.
Everybody say good works.
You were created for good works.
You were not created to pick on your brother.
I could say any number of things there, but I'll leave you to imagine what it is that you could say to yourself about that.
We're created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them.
He prepared them beforehand that we should walk in them, not talk about them, not compare them to somebody else's.
But to know in the knowing of our knowing that we've been created in God's image for such a time as this, would good gifts?
Did he chose beforehand that we would walk in them?
What's your story?
What are your good gifts?
What are you aware of?
And it's never too late.
Amen.
It is never too late to discover the goodness of God in us.
Never too late.
Everybody has a story.
God's the author.
You're not the author of your own story.
Get over yourself.
God is in charge.
Amen.
It is good.
Come on.
It's so good.
Oh, we would be so dangerous if we wrote our own stories.
How many of you have tried?
Uh-huh.
Doesn't go well, does it?
Mm-hmm.
Yeah, I'd love to meet you.
Have the guts to say, hey, I'm one of those people.
So, Esther has a story.
It's pretty good.
Daniel has a story.
Paul, Moses, Caleb, Peter, David, Jesus.
Everyone has a story.
Who are you?
And why are you the who you are?
What are your good gifts?
What story has been written by God in your heart, mind, and soul?
What good works has God placed within you?
Your future is in you.
Teenagers in particular young adults who are searching for the reason they are, the who they are, are listening to the lyrics or the songs they sing,
They're watching the shows on Netflix trying to figure out who they are.
They're reading the billboards.
They're trying to figure out their gender, their race, their culture, their everything from the culture, the culture lies.
The liar is loud and the liar is prevalent, but the scripture is always true.
And when we look at the scripture and we look at God's creative intent, we can and will figure out who we are and why we are the who we are.
And then we can walk in that and have integrity and have joy and have purpose.
Amen.
So to look inside,
To all of you, all of you, no matter your age, when you're trying to figure it out, you know, we're created in this image, which means that we can become like Him.
So we read this holy, accurate word and we get to know Him, amen?
It's a love letter, life letter from our Creator, for our benefit.
We don't get to just know Him, we get to know ourselves in here.
It's so powerful.
So I was created to be a Chatty Cathy.
I don't know your story, but here's my story.
I was created to be a Chatty Cathy, two and a half, three years old, Grandma Mary gives me the nickname, you're such a Chatty Cathy, the name,
The dal, by the way, was not named after me.
Some people have wondered about that.
So my nickname, Chadda Cathy Rumor, is I was talking in the womb.
I really don't think that's possible.
My parents chose to see all the words in me as a gift to develop, not a strength.
They saw it as a gift and a strength to develop, not a problem to eliminate.
I'm gonna say that again.
Let me say it this way.
How many of you are parenting young children?
Okay, their strengths will drive you nuts, but just pretend it's not happening, okay?
Most of us actually misbehave from our strength.
We don't misbehave out of our weakness.
We misbehave out of our strength.
Because too much of a good thing isn't a good thing.
And I was at Chatty Cathy.
In my appearance, saw all the words in me as a strength to develop, not a problem to eliminate, and that is why I'm here.
When I was about 10, then we'll be in Children's Theater, they said, go talk there a while.
That's true story.
That's by the way where I learned how to be on a stage, and how to use body language and facial expression, and how to
Orient toward a team that the source was my favorite book when I was a little girl.
And I know you think I need a life, I have a great life.
I've now written books using A what to write them, the source.
Like hello, childhood causes adulthood.
Like brilliant, are you thinking that, woman's brilliant.
Yeah, today causes tomorrow.
Pay attention.
So because I was pinpointed, well, I'm here.
Todd Second graders was a university professor.
Now people pay me to talk.
It's so cool.
It's still amazing to me that anybody listens to me, but I'm flying home with money.
I mean, figure it out.
I'm not here for the money.
Please hear me, sir.
I am not here for the money, but I appreciate the money because you support Summit, which I love, and I got bills to pay to.
Yeah, we've got to be who we've been called to be.
Amen?
The way that God created you is an example of His goodness toward you.
And when you live it out, you're saying thank you.
You know, we're called to glorify God.
It's Isaiah 43 verse seven and a few other places in the scripture.
We're called to put Him on display to glorify Him.
And I think a primary way that we glorify Him is to become who He created us to be.
When he sat at the powder's wheel and thought you into existence, he had a plan and a vision and a purpose and a hope and a desire.
This is what the scripture says, and it's true.
And when we live that out, oh, he's glorified, which is such a powerful possibility for us.
So there's more to my story.
Let me think here.
Spelling does not come naturally to me.
Now we are all created on purpose with purpose for purpose, and that includes even our challenges.
It includes our strengths as we learn from Ephesians 210.
We're gifted in advance.
Pray, Father God, show me the gifts.
Some of you aren't listening to the life givers, and so you don't know you're gifted.
You're listening to the negative naysayers.
And why are you listening to the music and watching those shows that are not gonna build you up to the glory of God?
I'll praise God, you're in church.
I think this is a good church.
I like it here.
Like I do this all over you guys.
There's a spirit here.
There's also smoke here.
That is planned, I'm assuming.
Okay.
I don't need to be worried about something.
This is not like a rock concert coming up or something.
I don't know.
Thanks for laughing.
That was a test.
You're still awake.
Very good.
I'm impressed.
All right.
Create it on purpose with purpose.
And that includes the challenges that we have.
Because when God ordains us, creates us, it's the whole package.
So spelling does not come naturally to me.
Am I among friends?
The English language makes no sense.
My last name is spelled K-O-C-H. We pronounce it cook.
That's ridiculous.
I actually go by Dr. Kathy professionally.
It's just so much easier.
I taught second graders.
I taught the rules that don't work.
I taught the rule that if there are two vowels together, the first one does the talking and the second one does the walking.
I'm going to remember that.
The first one does the talking and the second one does the walking.
The word does is in the rule and it breaks the rule.
We don't need the letter C.
We have a K and an S, we're doing fine.
I had an eighth grader say in the word science, which letter is silent, the S or the C?
Oh my gosh.
I traveled with a misspeller's dictionary so that in my dictionary I can find the words.
Because how many of you know if you can't find it, like your mom says, look it up.
You're like, I've tried, it's not fair, you know?
Like knowledge has a K at the front of it, that's ridiculous.
There was a little girl making noise and her mom is like, what are you doing?
And she's like, I'm helping you, I'm brooming the porch.
The mom is like, what are you doing?
I'm brooming the porch for you, mommy.
I mean, helpful.
Mom gets out there.
What was she doing?
Sweeping.
Mom uses teachable moment.
Every homeschool mom knows this is the right thing to do.
So she said, well, no, sweetheart, this is called sweeping.
You're sweeping for mommy.
I'm really glad you're sweeping.
You're sweeping, thank you.
Little girl's eyes get really big.
Mommy, if you rake with the rake and you shovel with the shovel and you comb with the comb and you brush with the brush, why don't you broom with the broom?
She's right.
How many of you think she's right?
Come on, thank you.
I love you people.
So spelling doesn't come naturally to me, but I still write why because God told me to.
I would never say I can't spell, that's a lie.
And I would never say spelling is hard, that's a lie, but what I will own is that spelling does not come naturally to me.
Don't lie to yourselves.
Some of you are not stepping up and stepping out into God's glory because you've lied to yourself about what you can't do, won't do,
Shouldn't do.
So spelling doesn't come naturally to me.
I want the rules to work.
I don't remember what the word looked like the last time.
Is it a double P or a double S?
And if I had the rule book, there would only be one spelling for that sound and then it would be easy, hello.
So if you're like, are we in church?
But I think God wants us to own the challenge but not give into it.
So I write books.
That would earn PhD, went to college a long time.
That's a good thing to do.
For me, might not be for you.
Don't let your weaknesses win.
Amen?
Know who you are and believe in the believing of your believing that God chose you to be who you are.
Weakness, challenge, strength, all of it.
By the way, I need to say that some of you have weaknesses and challenges that are way more serious than a spelling issue.
My issue is not a big deal.
I'm grateful for it, actually, because it humbles me.
I need to look upwards.
I'm the president and founder and CEO of a company and ministry that people who work with me proofread for me because that's the right thing to do.
I'm dependent upon my editors that make all my books better.
Nothing wrong with challenges unless you give into them.
Challenges can actually strengthen you if you choose for character to be a part of who you're becoming.
So don't let your weaknesses win, amen?
believe in your believing that it's good that you are who you are.
I also, when I was a kid, not only was I a child of Cathy, I thought it was too tall.
I don't know if you can relate to this, but I am 6'1", and you're glad, because I'm seated and you can see me.
If I was like four feet 10, you'd be like, where'd that lady go?
I was about six, walked home from the elementary school I went to, told my mom I didn't want to be tall anymore.
I tripped over things that weren't there, I was clumsy, it was bad.
My mom and dad, like they listened to me, the highest compliment a child will ever pay you is to share her heart with you.
Mommy, I don't want to be tall anymore.
And they didn't say, well, get over it.
You're going to be tall.
Look at us.
Like, I wouldn't have understood that.
I was six people.
They enrolled me in tap dance class.
And I got to be the center of the back row, a position of I added that only the tallest girl was allowed to have.
So I went from being too tall to being cool to all.
See, if I say I'm too tall, I just honor God's creative intent.
Have you put two TOO in the front of something?
And that's your way of saying, God, I disagree with your decision.
So I became a tap dancer.
I'm no longer clumsy.
I won't prove it.
I won't tap dance either because I wear these shoes on carpet.
It would be bad.
You wouldn't believe me and I'm not a liar.
So I'm just going to, I'm not going to do it.
I have no trouble getting my suitcases into the overhead bin, by the way.
I'm actually grateful now for my height.
When I was little, I didn't like it.
And by the way, there are a lot of people today who don't like something about themselves and are trying to change something they ought to leave alone.
Like I am grateful times two that my mom didn't ever saw nearby and say, why don't we just cut off six inches between the knee and the ankle?
They knew what I know to be true and that is you gotta change your attitude toward the things you do not like and you leave the rest alone.
If you can change it, change it.
If you can't change it, you can't change your attitude.
Amen.
That was weak people.
Try that again.
Amen.
Thank you.
I like you right here.
You sit in the front every time I speak.
Appreciate that.
All right.
You guys with me?
Doing all right?
Making sense?
was in Thailand or Manila, Philippines, speaking forever ago, a bunch of Christian school teachers from Asia.
They're not known for their height.
And I was speaking behind a podium because I was healthy back then.
And I said, I could be four feet 10.
And I snuck behind the podium.
And I'd say, but where'd that lady go?
So I'm glad I'm 61.
And up to the front of the auditorium at the end came a woman who announced I am four feet 10.
I was terrified.
I thought she was mad.
She began to cry.
I was really afraid for my life.
It was a bad situation.
And she looked up and she goes, I'm four feet 10.
If I always wanted to be tall, but this summer I was in a car accident and they had to use the jaws of life to cut the car open.
And I was told if I was one inch taller, I'd be brain damaged or dead.
And then she said, I am who I am supposed to be.
There's freedom in that, people.
There's freedom in that to know in the knowing of the knowing that you are who you are supposed to be.
and to live well with that, to not sin with that, and to ask the Lord to reveal more of the why behind the what.
Why are you, the who you are?
So not only am I a, you know, chatty-cathy, who's cool-toll, who thinks spelling is ridiculous, but I also have a low voice.
How many of you have heard it?
You know, you've heard it.
Have you ever, have any of you like leaned over and said she kind of sounds like a guy?
Like I know that too.
People don't live in denial.
Could I just say that again?
Don't live in denial.
You know the strengths or you won't do anything good for God.
Know the challenges or the devil's going to use them against you.
The devil cares about your strengths.
Amen?
The devil doesn't want your strengths being used to build the kingdom of God.
He wants them used for his kingdom.
So as somebody who's word smart, I'm a chatty Cathy, I'm an author and a speaker.
If I gossiped and teased and named called and exaggerated and had bias, and I didn't tell the truth, the devil would win, the ministry would be lost, my reputation would be tamed.
You gotta know who you are, and then you gotta surround yourself with the goodness of God, amen, so that you can use it all for the goodness of God.
So my low voice, it's okay because it's for God.
Now I don't like being called sir, that is not cool.
And I used to say, you know, like I'm not this, like if I had,
Like blonde, gorgeous, long hair, pink ribbons.
It wouldn't matter today.
We live in a sick culture.
When I was young, my low voice wasn't an issue because trans wasn't an issue.
Now it's an issue.
And people have looked me right in the eye and they've wondered, you know?
But it's interesting because I just know what I know.
God didn't make a mistake.
See, if you read the Holy Echreah Transforming, I was relevant word of God and you study Isaiah in Psalm 139 and Ephesians 210,
In God's creative intent, you'll be okay with who you are, yes?
So I have a low voice.
It's not too low.
If I say it's too low, I'm dishonoring God.
I don't even think much about my voice.
I actually don't think it's all that low.
But I know that it's lower than some.
It's lower when you microphone it and when you mike it.
So I just know God didn't make a mistake.
I don't know.
I was like my low voice, but it's mine.
Therefore, it's right.
Amen?
Was that hard for you to hear?
Low voices can be heard further in a room.
I could actually turn off the mic and you can hear me.
At Summit Ministries where I'm privileged to teach, we have about 200 students in a relatively small room and they'll cough or they'll sneeze or they'll be looking through their 200 page notebook and my voice carries through the back of the room.
I've been to 30 countries to help North American missionaries stay on the field and they don't have sound systems where I've been and it doesn't matter, my voice will carry.
I could be doing an auditorium, doing a presentation for kids in an auditorium here in your community and have the buzz be so badly turned off the sound system and my voice carries.
God knew exactly what He was doing when He chosen His love to make me me, and the same thing is true for you.
Amen?
Low voices have more integrity and authority than high voices.
I think that's ridiculous, but that's what the research says.
The research also says men would prefer a woman with a low voice.
I am a popular podcaster.
I've been on focus on the family numerous times.
James Dobson, been in movies with Kirk Cameron.
I've been told by the best of the best that I have a perfect voice.
God is good.
All the time.
Do you believe it?
In the believing of your believing for yourself?
Like for yourself?
This is about us, amen?
Yeah, I wonder.
So Psalm 139, such a powerful verse, right?
This is a passage that some women have admitted to me that they've memorized before they've even conceived their first kid.
David writes this, for you formed my inward parts
You knitted me together in my mother's womb.
I praise you for I'm fearfully and wonderfully made.
Wonderful are your works and my soul knows it very well.
Oh, I love this passage.
It's a precise skill.
Before the knitter begins knitting something, the knitter decides what to make.
And the knitter chooses the type of yarn and the color of the yarn and the size of the knitting needles and decides what to make.
Otherwise you have a hat scarf, mitten, afghan, sweater, non thing.
Your knit together, precisely designed, carefully created in God's image, Genesis 1, 27, remember that?
We're fearfully made.
We're supposed to respect ourselves.
It's the same fear as fear God.
It's the same word in Hebrew.
To stand and go, whoa, God, look at what you've done.
We're not God, amen?
Praise God.
but created in his image for his glory to know that matters.
Wonderfully made unique and my soul knows it very well.
David wrote that.
I could hate me on, it's disgusting.
Why anybody cares, just isn't a, I just don't get it.
But it's hard at times.
But my soul knows very well that I'm a woman with a voice that happens to be lower than some.
And it doesn't matter.
I wrote the gender book, the Gender Confident Kids book, with Dr. Jeff Myers, and I'm so grateful we're able to give it to every family here as a gift.
I mean, really, seriously, please take one.
I wrote that with Dr. Jeff, partly because I have great empathy for the gender confused.
It's real.
And if I was young today being called sir, I might wonder if that was right and everything else about me was wrong.
It's easy today to be messed up because the culture's chaotic and the liar's loud, and we're not doing our job of teaching young people the scripture says.
Whoa, was that okay?
Okay, am I okay?
I love that he's right here in the front.
It's really honoring, thank you.
Sometimes I'm introducing people leave, it's like really awkward.
So I can now deal with Kate Mail because I know that I know that I know
The God made me in His image for His glory for such a time as this.
And my little voice helps me do what I do.
What's your story?
We have to choose to change our attitude toward the things we cannot change.
Amen.
Work to change.
If you're listening to me, you're going, Kathy, I don't like this weakness.
Dr. Kathy, I don't use this strength.
Well, grow up.
Live long and be strong and change what you can and change your attitude toward the things you cannot change, amen?
That takes real humility and it takes real passion.
So I'm a cool tall.
Chatty Cathy with a low voice who thinks spelling makes no sense.
What's your story?
Are you dreaming inappropriate dreams?
Or are you dreaming appropriate dreams?
You cannot become whatever you want to become.
You can only become who God created you to be.
In part of the dilemma in our culture, part of the stress and depression and anxiety is especially young people trying to become who they never can be.
I could not have been a jockey on a horse.
Hello?
How long do you just saw it?
Like it is bad, ugly.
I mean, the horse is dying.
The horse is whipping around his head like, what?
What?
Not who is on me, but what is on me?
Like, I'm about to fall and die.
It's just this.
I could not have been a jockey on a horse.
I am six one.
I could have prayed every night.
Father God, make me short.
I want to be a jockey on a horse.
I wake up every day mad at myself, at God, and at my parents for not helping me become.
You can't be whatever you want to be.
And this is real maturity, people.
And for some of you, this is not an easy message.
I'm so grateful to be here to live in the reality of God's goodness.
You have a story.
I pray you know it.
And if you don't know it, I pray you'll ask God to show it to you.
I pray that you'll ask family members and friends and coworkers and neighbors, hey, what do you know about me to be true?
Some of you are really in denial.
I get that, it's easy.
I'm very privileged to speak to kids, and I have an amazing life.
And the fourth graders wrote me some thank you notes.
I was actually in a public school.
Being in public schools is amazing.
I don't do much of that anymore, but I use the word everywhere I go because they don't have to know it's the word for it to be powerful.
So Trent wrote me this thank you note.
Hey, thank you for motivating me to the next chapter of my story.
And Michaela wrote, I will find my true story when I'm older.
I don't know now because my story is just starting.
And Hunter wrote, I did not know I had a story.
But now that I do know, I can't wait to find out what my story is.
Oh, Father God, it's been good to be in your house today.
Would you answer their questions for them, please, Father?
Are they curious?
Are they confused?
Are they wondering?
They need to know their story because you created us on purpose with purpose for such a time as this to bring you good and to bring you glory.
And we need to know who we are so we can do it well.
Father God, answer their questions, erase the doubt, clarify confusion, would hope, feel where despair has been.
And I pray that those who need to make some changes will be motivated to do so.
Oh, help the parents, parents strong, help the grandparents speak life.
Whatever's going on, Father God, I'd just lift that all to you and ask that you would be so pleased with everyone's responses.
What a joy to be here.
Thanks for the opportunity.
I pray in Jesus' name with great optimism, amen.
Thank you, sir, for allowing me to be here.
Thank you, Dr. Kathy.
So encouraging.
Like I said, if you have plans this afternoon, you need to modify them.
Be back here at 2 p.m., all right?
Hear more from Dr. Kathy.
I have two opportunities for you before I send you out of here.
The first is, as Kathy mentioned, we have her book available for you today.
A couple of ways you can get that.
There's a QR code on the screen.
You can scan that.
It takes you to a little
order form that you can order your free copy online, or if you want to get your hands on it today as long as supplies last out at the table, they have those available for you there.
The QR code's also out there.
If they run out of books, you can scan that and order your free copy through that.
Second opportunity, we partner with Summit Ministries, as most of you know, to provide these worldview weekends.
It's an excellent ministry, and a few of our students have actually attended their 12-day
biblical worldview conference and that has impacted them very deeply in their worldview formation and Here's an exciting thing.
We have Summit has actually earmarked three scholarships exclusively for football students Some at ministries.
Yeah They are offering this scholarship as a unique opportunity to empower student leaders
who demonstrate strong leadership qualities, a heart for serving others, and a desire to grow in their faith.
The scholarship covers the conference tuition, including meals and lodging, held in Manitou Springs, Colorado, down near Colorado Springs, and the students are only responsible for their travel in a small conference deposit.
So it's an amazing opportunity
designed to remove financial barriers so students can experience two life-changing weeks of biblical worldview training and discipleship.
So awesome.
So if you are between the ages of 16 and 22 and have an interest in being part of this type of event, please head out to the summit table and you need to talk to handsome Mark, all right?
So Mark, he's right here.
There he goes.
Make sure you know what he looks like and make sure you see him if you have an interest in that.
Otherwise today if you came prepared to worship through giving as always just reminding the black boxes are by the doors on your way out.
Why don't you stand with me as we prepare to go.
Do what you can to be back here at 2 p.m. Have a great afternoon and we'll see you back next time.